Core Meeting - 2/25/2015
------------------------

#### Agenda
 * Pros and cons of swift app development
    * How far away is stability
    * What can be accomplished now
    * How can we plan for swift stability
 * Rediscuss possibility of web development
    * Pros/Cons
    * Which tech
    * Javascript....?
 * Discuss elos interface design
    * Essential components
    * Practice of reduction
    * Quartz composer/origami

#### Notes

**Nick:** Swift. Status?

**Sam:** If you are thinking about an isolated point in time in the future - 6 months is the rough figure I've thrown out because swift was released 6 months ago and it has made a substantial amount of progress so it should make more in the next 6 months. In the next 6 months if elos has an app it will be written in Swift.

Swift was rushed out of the door, apple execs wanted something, and it wasn't quite ready yet. It allows for functional design - I'm a big fan of functional these days. 

Also seems like the decision to use Swift is a logic puzzel right, if you think about whether we would prefer web or native, native is just more conducive to what we are trying to do. And I think we prefer iOS over Android because we own iPhones and can more easily dog food. That just makes sense. I also believe that when we have an app in 6 months we will be glad that we started in Swift and don't have to import classes or rewrite everything. Whether or not we start the app immediately, that's another question, but when we do have an iPhone app it will be written in Swift.

And swift is getting better every day, every day you see improvements in the library and pretty consistent updates to the Swift compiler itself. 

**Nick:** Ok so yeah I would to hear what you have to think on  working in the Swift app environment now.

**Sam:** Ok, now the hardest thing for me is moving forward without knowledge of best practices. I don't mind that xcode crashes every so often, I don't mind really that it takes a little bit of time to compile. Those are things that I'm not really worried about but I'm not entirely certain that what I am doing is the correct thing do.

**Nick:** Yeah, but haven't you been in that kind of environment before? I mean we have had the scenario where we don't really know what we are doing.

**Sam:** Before I when I was in this position  I didn't even know that such things [probably referring to best practices] existed. This is the first time I'm in a langauge for which the best usage practices are not known. But at the end of the day it just time until they will be.

**Nick:** So then, is it worth elos's time to try to figure those out. We have worked in uncertain environments before, with the web but I guess there was always..,

**Sam:** the key difference is that back then we were just ignorant of the best practices. We didn't know we were doing things wrong. Sorry I'm getting really bad feedback over the call....cuts out.

_re-call_

**Nick:** ok so, right we didn't know, but do we have enough know-how now to figure out swift. I know that's an impossible question, so just I guess... What's your read.

**Sam:** What really needs to happen is I just need to buckle up and write something. I feel like I'm paralyzed with doubt. 

**Nick:** Ok that's a more positive progress-oriented perspective. I totally agree with what you're saying because I feel that often about go. Analysis paralysis is killer.

**Sam:** yeah.

**Nick:** This is another stupid question. 
(_laughing_) 

No it honestly is. What are the next three steps for elos on swift

**Sam:** so the primary goal, oh, well that's the other wierd thing is a lot of the problems are interlaced. Steps 1 and 2 connect.

1. Connecting to a server over a websocket.
2. Local persistence
they are tandem problems both hard in themselves

**Nick:** How ridiculous is just doing everything in memory for now?

**Sam:** uhh...not very ridiculous, although I am not sure how big a downside it is because I haven't researched it as much but the transition to something mroe concrete might be a little rough.

**Sam:** Ok so one more point that relates to the other one is about the in memory store, is that there is a lot of  things you can do in memory that would take some creativity or rewrites to get right for local persistence.

**Nick:** Pk yeah, wait is Core Data not in Swift.

**Sam:** Oh yeah well core data sucks...is my opinion. And I have read blogs and tweets from very experienced developers who have trouble with it so I tend away from it if that makes sense. The other two contenders:

One is SQLite which is ok. The other is Realm, recent YC batch still beta software guaranteed free, so that's not a problem. It seems to be more of like an active record style memory management thing... which is something that I am familiar with and makes a lot of sense to me. Plus notifications on save and on update. That would play pretty nicely with reactive cocoa in my mind with signals and streams and reactive programming.

**Nick:** Ok so speaking of reactive cocoa and reactive UI what's the status in Swift. How's that going? 

**Sam:** They  landed some pretty significant PRs just this past week that looked pretty good. I'm not familiar enough with the library to understand how much work is left but they seem to be making some pretty good progress. I've also been listening to Build Phase which is thoughtbot's iOS podcast and they are super big fans of reactive cocoa and they've been using Swift in production for a few months now and they haven't had any problems at scale which seems promising.

**Nick:** Sorry I'm delayed for a long time (referencing typing) but I think this is good to have. I have this sort of cynicism about dependencies now I see them as liabilities. Which is sad in a sense but I think you need enterprise backing... I want to hear that github is backing reactive cocoa because they are basing their product on it

**Sam:** Right so their entire Mac app is reactive cocoa and they had 5 commits on the swift branch today so that's all I have to go off of but it seems pretty good.

**Nick:** So to wrap up swift. What's our resolution?

_Sam talks about moving forward and just starting_

**Nick** Ok so let's actually turn the discussion to like the REPL and the other possibilities of initial ui.

_explains repl_

I couldn't keep up typing. The rest of the conversation consisted in talking about repl, the fact that it is basically done and that you can open a websocket connection to it is now in the core elos api. 

More talk about samcal getting going on Swift and me continuing on backend. A bit of talk about elos's dynamic ontology.
